- [Instructor] We have here
the flow control coding exercise.
So hopefully you were
successful in completing this
and it has two steps.
First one, we must modify
the method even_numbers()
which is defined here
so that it only returns
a list of even numbers.
Two, four, six, et cetera.
So not odd numbers.
The second step is to
modify the method user_menu
that has an argument choice
so that if the choice = "q" as a string
it returns Quit.
And make sure that if the choice is A,
it still returns Add.
Okay so let's start with
the first instruction.
Modify the method even_numbers()
so that it only returns
a list of even numbers.
We have a list of numbers
here called numbers
and what this method here
does, or this function,
is it creates a new list called evens
and that is an empty list to begin with
and then it iterates over,
it goes over each of
the numbers in this list
and what it does is it appends the number
to the evens list.
So the first time it goes
through it appends one to evens
then it appends two,
then it appends three,
then four, then five, and so on
until naturally the evens list
is exactly equal to the numbers list.
And then it returns that list.
So this is not what we want
because then the evens list
is going to have both
odd and even numbers.
We want to avoid the odd numbers, okay?
So how do we do that?
Well there's many ways we can do it.
We can say if the number
is one of the odd numbers,
don't add it.
If the number is one of
the even numbers, add it.
If number == 2 or number == 4
or number == 6 or number == 8,
add it.
And naturally when the
number is one or three
or five or seven or nine,
this is not going to run.
So we're just not going
to append it to the list
and then we're just gonna
move on to the next number.
So this is a way that we could do this
and it's not a very good way
because as soon as our numbers list grows
we're just gonna have to
continue to add numbers
to this if statement.
So that's not the best way
to go about it I think.
But nevertheless this would work.
The way I would go about it
is by using the modulus operator.
Modulus operator returns the result,
sorry the remainder of a division
between two numbers.
So number % 2 == 0 then
we want to append it.
Let me go over this in a bit more detail.
If the number is one and
you divide one by two
what do you get back, if
you do one divided by two?
What you get back is zero remainder one.
One divided by two is zero
because you cannot fit two into one
but you do have one left
over which is that one there.
Similarly if you do three divided by two
you get one remainder one
because two fits into three once
and you have one left over.
Similarly with five you get
two remainder one and so on.
However if you do four divided by two,
you get two remainder zero
because two fits into four twice.
If you do two divided by two
you get one remainder zero.
Six divided by two you get
three remainder zero and so on.
So the common thing here is
the remainder is always zero
when you divide an even number by two.
This is what the modulus
operator gives us.
It gives us the remainder,
not the result of the division,
but how many are left over.
For any even number
if you do a modulus of two
you will always get back zero
because you don't have any remainder.
If these were an odd number
you'd always get back one.
And so this gives us exactly what we want.
If it is an even number
append it to the list.
Next let's go on to the user menu.
We've got a choice argument
and we have if choice == "a": return "Add"
and what we have to is make
sure that if the choice is Q
we return Quit.
So we just have to copy and paste really.
If choice == "q": return "Quit."
Now we have an if statement here
which is going to check if the choice is A
and then we have another if statement here
which is gonna check if the choice is Q.
So good practise
is for us to link these
if statements together
into an if, elif because only one of these
is gonna happen at any
given point in time.
It doesn't make sense
to have two separate if statements there.
Let's check the solution.
And there you have it.
That solution is now correct.
So hopefully you've learned a bit more
about the modulus operator
and how you'd go about this
and also about the if
statement down there.
So that's it for this video.
I'll see you on the next one.